After the break in our expert speak
segment now I'm joined by Priya Deshmuk
head health products operations and
services at ICIC Lombard. Uh thank you
so much Priya ma'am for joining our
insurance mantra show. Uh it's a
pleasure to have you with us today.
>> Thank you. Thank you Andra and it's a
great pleasure to be on your show.
Looking forward to fantastic
conversation.
>> Okay ma'am. Uh so to begin with I just
want to ask you ma'am there are so many
queries to us also uh where policyh
holders keep saying that okay we applied
for the insurance claim health insurance
claim our uh either our claim got
rejected or we did not get the full
claim amount at times insurance
companies also saying that you are
having a pre-existing disease so we
cannot uh pay the complete claim to you
or we cannot entertain your claim. name.
So, uh what uh basic understanding
policy holder should have when it comes
to pre-existing disease and a waiting
period. Great. It's a great question
Anag and I get asked this question all
the time as a layman insurance.
What is the kind of product the person
is buying?
understanding and doing a comprehensive
check of what are the you know kind of
coverages, what are the sub limits, what
are the you know condition in the
particular policy. So whether the policy
is bought directly uh from the company
or an advisor or an aggregator, it is
important to know what uh the customer
is actually buying. Second of all, you
know, it's very very crucial to disclose
every single uh you know ailment or any
kind of condition that the customer is
aware of. So pre-existing condition
issue happens when a layman a consumer
uh does not disclose a particular you
know past hospitalization or any kind of
uh you know condition that has arisen
minor or major irrespective it's very
very important to disclose that to the
insurer while applying for the uh
insurance cover and letting the decision
be taken by the insurer. Uh talking
about some deductions being made um you
know many of the policies have sublimits
they have certain co-pays they have
certain deductibles so
to understand what is the actual product
you're buying uh during the uh you know
policy purchase and
>> ma'am nowadays lifestyle diseases like
diabetes hypertensions are very common
so for these type of patient what should
they
while going for the uh health insurance
product or health insurance policy what
they should keep in mind before buying
the policy.
See Alag you know we have seen at ICS
Lombard as well uh we've seen those days
when having diabetes of hypertension was
not really very common we have observed
over the last couple of years and uh in
the last one decade there's a lot of
progression of non-communicable diseases
lifestyle diseases uh and with that the
underwriting uh you know criterias have
also changed the products have also
changed and insurance companies uh have
started covering
diabetes and hypertension there are
minimal waiting period depending on the
severity and how well is the disease
managed uh you can get a cover uh and
product where wherein the waiting
periods can be reduced. Typically
waiting period used to be 3 to four
years but now there are products uh with
uh waiting initial waiting period of
just 30 uh days and 31st day onwards
your claim will be covered. So uh it's
important to understand again I would
say u you know uh what is the current
health condition that the member is
having the consumer is having and
accordingly choose the various product
benefits that are available in the
market. There are huge number of
products that are uh uh you know
covering hypertension as well as
diabetes and you know consumer may
choose amongst the products that are
available
>> and ma'am uh how a policy holder can
reduce their premium also because with a
pre-existing disease your premium shoots
up so what are the ways to reduce the
premium also
>> so uh if there are uh you know
pre-existing diseases there are you ways
a company insurance company would from
an underwriting perspective look at how
severe or how well-managed is a life
condition. So consumers who have
diabetes or hypertension or you know
both diabetes and hypertension they
manage their exercise regime they manage
their lifestyle they manage their
nutrition and with that their health is
very well managed. In that case
typically we see that there is no extra
loading that is applied. In certain
cases depending on the health status of
the consumer there are various loadings
in combination that a uh company may
apply in order to really reduce the
premium depending on the affordability
of you know the the consumer. There are
options of co-ayments. There are options
of sublims that can be applied. There
can be deductible you know there is a
super top of concept where the initial
you know base cover is base sum insured
is not covered and then you know on top
of it whatever claims come in come comes
in a policy insurance company would pay
that particular claim with that a
immense amount of reduction in premium
also is possible. So these are various
means by which a policy holder can
reduce the premium from a affordability
standpoint. These are the various way by
which you can reduce your premium. But
one important question is there that
okay you got the policy you have the
some insured
uh some assured limit is also high but
for the policy holders uh there is not
that much of comfort they are not sure
that okay at the time of claim they will
get the complete claim or not. So is
there any to-do list where with which
policy policy holder should be ready. So
at the time of claim they should not
face any issue.
>> They uh there are different um you know
measures first and foremost awareness of
what you're buying and what are the you
know supplements or any co-ayments or
any kind of guardrails that are there in
the policy. making yourself aware there
is something called as you know customer
information sheet which the regulator
has mandated for all insurance companies
to include as part of the policy uh kit
apart from that you know insurers like I
say alumbard we have something called as
uh uh know your policy where all the
waiting periods all the you know
important features and any limits are
mentioned in the policy so making
yourself aware and familiarize yourself
as to what you're buying second of of
all um you know uh trying and uh you
know making sure that when you're filing
a claim uh second point is very
important which is pre-existing disease
declaring any kind of health condition
minor most minor uh also leaving it for
the insurer insurers's discretion to
evaluate the health status that is the
second important aspect third important
aspect is during the time of claim
whether it is cashless or reimbursement
trying and You know we should keep a a
folder of health records you know
readily available if at all any
emergency happens or any kind of claim
is to be made planned or unplanned in
that case a checklist of documents on
what should be submitted. So you know
there is something called as discharge
summary medical bills any kind of you
know supporting documents all of those
should be you know kind of made you know
available uh in the first instance.
Also, when you're choosing a policy,
there are certain add-ons like, you
know, for ourselves also, our company
also has a product with uh add-ons like
claim protector. So, non-medical
expenses are typically deducted around,
you know, 7 to 10% of a, you know,
policy deductions happens on non-medical
expenses. So, if you add this add-on at
a very nominal rate, your claim gets
paid in full. So uh making the choice uh
while buying a product will also really
support our consumers uh to really uh
keep this uh whole worry of whether or
not my claim will be paid in full.
>> Okay. So this is the checklist policy
holders should uh make it ready. My
final question to you ma'am uh before I
let you go uh do you think that uh we
are moving toward illness to wellness
and which is beneficial for all
stakeholders for policy holder for
insurance company and uh as a nation
also.
So absolutely Anurag you know you made a
million-dollar point because we have a
vision you know uh India has a vision of
having insurance for all by 2047 that's
a very powerful mission that we all have
embarked upon and as part of that uh you
know uh mission uh moving from uh sick
care or you know only hospitalization to
wellness taking charge of the health
taking charge of your daily routines
whether it is you know 1 hour 60 minutes
of fitness activity, nutrition, uh
moving through the day, appropriate
sleep and also mindfulness. All of these
factors are very important and they
affect uh customers members health and
increasingly people have started using
variables. The variable data is can also
be shared with the insurance company.
There are rewards in terms of uh you
know health health outcomes. So if in
case you are as a as a consumer as a
member uh you are able to really take
care of your health and you are able to
really demonstrate that through variable
data there are rewards uh and these
rewards can be used through to redeem
you know any other benefits such as
pharmacy you know medicines and you know
other OPD and wellness activities
including you know some amount of
discount on your premium. So huge amount
of perks are there for the consumers to
remain fit and healthy. As a insurance
companies, it is in our interest. We
want our all our members to remain fit
and well and really want to make sure
that we build an ecosystem that helps
them live a holistic you know good life
with no sickness and no need for
hospitalization on.
>> Okay. Thank you so much uh Priyam M for
your valuable insight uh insights on
health insurance. Uh with this it's a
wrap on this edition of insurance
mantra. But uh before we go here is our
insurance basic. Did you know the IRD
has reduced the waiting period for
pre-existing disease like diabetes and
hypertension [music]
from 4 years to 3 years. Earlier you had
to wait four years before you your
insurer would cover such conditions.
[music] Now after 3 years your expenses
for pre-existing conditions will be
covered either through cashless [music]
treatment at network hospital or by
reimbursement claim.
These changes mean these this change
means the faster [music] access to
health insurance benefits and the
greater peace of mind for policy holder.
[music] Choose smart, stay protected.
That's our insurance mantra.